---
Source: "EGW"
Rarity: "artifact"
Type: "Weapon (Warhammer), Martial Weapon, Melee Weapon"
Attunement: "requires attunement"
Damage: "1d8 Bludgeoning"
Properties: "versatile (1d10), Vestige"
Mastery: 
Weight: "2 lb."
Value: 
---

# Grovelthrash (Awakened)

Crafted from a single piece of obsidian, this warhammer of Torog hums with magical energy and is carved with the images of faces screaming in pain. Sentience. Grovelthrash is a sentient neutral evil weapon with an Intelligence of 18, a Wisdom of 15, and a Charisma of 19. It has hearing and darkvision out to a range of 120 feet.The weapon communicates telepathically with its wielder and can speak, read, and understand Abyssal, Common, and Infernal. Personality. A covetous ultroloth named Ciria lives within Grovelthrash. The weapon values material possessions and doling out pain. It compliments its wielder whenever they claim treasure and takes pleasure in harming others. Dormant. The warhammer grants the following benefits in its dormant state:You can speak, read, and write Abyssal and Infernal.You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon. When you hit with an attack using this warhammer, you can deal an extra 2d6 bludgeoning damage to the target. If you do, you take 1d6 psychic damage. The warhammer deals double damage to objects and structures.While holding this weapon, you have advantage on Wisdom (Insight) checks made to discern a lie spoken in a language you understand. Betrayer Artifact Properties[–] The Arms of the Betrayers advance in power in the same manner as the Vestiges of Divergence. In its dormant state, each of these artifacts has one minor beneficial property and one minor detrimental property. When the artifact attains an awakened state, it gains an additional minor beneficial property and an additional minor detrimental property. When the item reaches its exalted state, it gains a major beneficial property. See "Artifact Properties" in chapter 7 of the Dungeon Master's Guide for more information. Awakened. When the warhammer reaches an awakened state, it gains the following properties:The weapon's bonus to attack and damage rolls increases to +2.You gain a burrowing speed equal to your walking speed. You can use your burrowing speed to move through sand, loose earth, mud, or ice, not solid rock.When a creature you can see within 30 feet of you hits you with an attack while you are wielding the warhammer, you can use your reaction to deal an amount of psychic damage to that creature equal to the damage you took from the attack. This property can't be used again until the next dawn. Versatile. This weapon can be used with one or two hands. A damage value in parentheses appears with the property—the damage when the weapon is used with two hands to make a melee attack. Vestige of Divergence. This item is a Vestige of Divergence, see Vestiges of Divergence for more information.