---
Source: "EGW"
Rarity: "artifact"
Type: "Weapon (Spear), Simple Weapon, Melee Weapon"
Attunement: "requires attunement"
Damage: "1d6 Piercing"
Properties: "thrown (20/60 ft.), versatile (1d8), Vestige"
Mastery: 
Weight: "3 lb."
Value: 
---

# Ruin's Wake (Awakened)

This spear is made from the ivory bone of an ancient gold dragon and carved with an Orc hymn to Gruumsh. Sentience. Ruin's Wake is a sentient chaotic evil weapon with an Intelligence of 20, a Wisdom of 16, and a Charisma of 22. It has hearing and darkvision out to a range of 120 feet.The weapon communicates telepathically with its wielder and can speak, read, and understand Abyssal, Common, and Orc. Personality. A slaughter-loving balor named Yarrowish lives within Ruin's Wake. The weapon desires only to draw blood and pushes its wielder to solve problems with violence. Dormant. The spear grants the following benefits in its dormant state:You can speak, read, and write Abyssal and Orc.You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon, and it deals an extra 1d8 piercing damage to any target it hits. Immediately after you make a ranged attack with this weapon, it flies back to your hand.As a reaction when you are hit by a melee attack, you can make a melee attack with Ruin's Wake with advantage against the attacker. You can't use this property again until you finish a short or long rest. Betrayer Artifact Properties[–] The Arms of the Betrayers advance in power in the same manner as the Vestiges of Divergence. In its dormant state, each of these artifacts has one minor beneficial property and one minor detrimental property. When the artifact attains an awakened state, it gains an additional minor beneficial property and an additional minor detrimental property. When the item reaches its exalted state, it gains a major beneficial property. See "Artifact Properties" in chapter 7 of the Dungeon Master's Guide for more information. Awakened. When the spear reaches an awakened state, it gains the following properties:The weapon's bonus to attack and damage rolls increases to +2, and the extra piercing damage dealt by the weapon increases to 2d8.When you hurl the spear and speak a command word, it transforms into a bolt of lightning, forming a line 5 feet wide that extends out from you to a creature you can see within 120 feet of you. Each creature in the line, excluding you, must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw, taking 8d6 lightning damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Ruin's Wake then returns to your hand. This property can't be used again until the next dawn. Thrown. If a weapon has the thrown property, you can throw the weapon to make a ranged attack. If the weapon is a melee weapon, you use the same ability modifier for that attack roll and damage roll that you would use for a melee attack with the weapon. For example, if you throw a handaxe, you use your Strength, but if you throw a dagger, you can use either your Strength or your Dexterity, since the dagger has the finesse property. Versatile. This weapon can be used with one or two hands. A damage value in parentheses appears with the property—the damage when the weapon is used with two hands to make a melee attack. Vestige of Divergence. This item is a Vestige of Divergence, see Vestiges of Divergence for more information.